cip: MultiQueries (#71)
ceramicnetwork/CIP: CIPs/CIP-71/CIP-71.md

}
```

### MultiQuery on http-daemon

The http daemon should be extended with a `states` method. This method allows for multiple Multiqueries to be done at once. The reason to add the ability to make multiple queries at once is that the http-client often want's to maintain the state of multiple documents at once in the background, so this method can be used to reduce the number of requests made.

**Endpoint:** `POST /api/v0/states`

**Body:**

The body should conform to the `StatesQuery` interface.

```typescript
interface MultiQuery {
  docid: string
  paths?: Array<string>
}

interface StatesQuery {
  queries: Array<MultiQuery>
}
```

**Response:**

The body should conform to the `Response` interface.

```typescript
interface ResponseData {
  [docid: string]: DocState
}

interface Response {
  status: 'success'
  data: ResponseData
}
```

### Pubsub Queries

Replace the current message types with the ones defined below. 

```typescript
interface Update {
  typ: 0
  doc: string
  tip: string
  anchorService?: string
}

interface Query {
	typ: 1
	id: number
	doc: string
	paths?: Array<string>
}

interface Response {
  typ: 2
	id: number
	[doc: string]: string
}
```

#### Update

> The new update message merges the previous `UPDATE` and `ANCHOR_META` message types by adding an optional `anchorService` property to the mesasge. This property will be set if an anchor has been requested but not yet returned.

Author: Then there would be a new tip, and a new update. Will clarify.

**Properties:**

* `typ` - the message type, always `0`

* `doc` - the DocID that is being updated
* `tip` - the CID of the new Tip of the document
* `anchorService` - the url of the anchor service that was used to request an anch or

#### Query

The query message is a replacement of the old `REQUEST` message type. The most important aspect is the new format for the `id` and the new property `paths`. 

**Properties:**

* `typ` - the message type, always `1`
* `id` - unique identifier of the query, random number

* `doc` - the DocID that is being queried
* `paths` - the paths in the contents of the documents to explore

#### Response

The response message is a replacement of the previous `RESPONSE` message type. Note the use of the new format for the `id` property, and the new way of adding multiple DocIDs and Tips to the same response.

**Properties:**

* `typ` - the message type, always `2`
* `id` - should be the same as the id of the query that is being responded to

> In addition to the properties above the response message also contains at least one property where the key is a DocID and the value is the CID of the latest tip of the given document. 

Author: Yeah, that's cleaner.

## Motivation

Ceramic is a network of linked documents and currently you can only sync one document at a time. This means that if you have a data structure where many documents are linked and you want to sync all of them you would need to make multiple requests to the network. By introducing an api and a gossip specification that allows queries for multiple documents at once this problem is mitigated.

## Specification

There are three main changes outlined below. The most important one is **Pubsub queries** which describes the protocol change required for this entire CIP. 

### CeramicApi

The *CeramicApi* is updated to be able to sync mutliple documents (preform a Multiquery) that may be linked from the initial document thoughout the `paths`.

```typescript

> function loadDocuments(id: DocID, paths: string[]): Promise<Record<DocID, Doctype>>

Reviewer: should we rename a method as discussed earlier? the name might be misleading - we can use something like `loadDocumentPaths` or similar

Author: Was it `loadLinkedDocuments` we wanted to use?

Reviewer: yeah, I think it was 👍

**Endpoint:** `POST /api/v0/states`

**Body:**

The body should conform to the `StatesQuery` interface.

```typescript
interface MultiQuery {
  docid: string
  paths?: Array<string>
}

interface StatesQuery {
  queries: Array<MultiQuery>
}
```

**Response:**

The body should conform to the `Response` interface.

```typescript
interface ResponseData {
  [docid: string]: DocState
}

interface Response {
  status: 'success'
  data: ResponseData
}
```

### Pubsub Queries

Replace the current message types with the ones defined below. 

```typescript
interface Update {
  typ: 0
  doc: string
  tip: string
  anchorService?: string
}

interface Query {
  typ: 1
  id: string
  doc: string
  paths?: Array<string>
}

interface TipMap {
  [docid: string]: string
}

interface Response {
  typ: 2
  id: string
  tips: TipMap
}
```

#### Update

> The new update message merges the previous `UPDATE` and `ANCHOR_META` message types by adding an optional `anchorService` property to the mesasge. This property will be set if an anchor has been requested but not yet returned. When an anchor do get returned a new update message will be sent with the CID of the *anchorRecord* as the `tip`, and `anchorSerivce` not set.

Reviewer: typo at `mesasge`

> The new update message merges the previous `UPDATE` and `ANCHOR_META` message types by adding an optional `anchorService` property to the message. This property will be set if an anchor has been requested but not yet returned. When an anchor do get returned a new update message will be sent with the CID of the *anchorRecord* as the `tip`, and `anchorSerivce` not set.

Author: ```suggestion
The new update message merges the previous `UPDATE` and `ANCHOR_META` message types by adding an optional `anchorService` property to the message. This property will be set if an anchor has been requested but not yet returned. When an anchor does get returned a new update message will be sent with the CID of the *anchorRecord* as the `tip`, and `anchorService` not set.
```

**Properties:**

* `typ` - the message type, always `0`
* `doc` - the DocID that is being updated
* `tip` - the CID of the new Tip of the document
* `anchorService` - the url of the anchor service that was used to request an anchor

#### Query

The query message is a replacement of the old `REQUEST` message type. The most important aspect is the new format for the `id` and the new property `paths`.

**Properties:**

* `typ` - the message type, always `1`

> * `id` - unique identifier of the query, multihash of the query object without the `id` property

Reviewer: should we specify here how this multihash is being built? do we need to canonicalize the query for that, etc?

Author: good point.

}

interface Query {
  typ: 1
  id: string
  doc: string
  paths?: Array<string>
}

interface TipMap {
  [docid: string]: string
}

interface Response {
  typ: 2
  id: string
  tips: TipMap
}
```

#### Update

> The new update message merges the previous `UPDATE` and `ANCHOR_META` message types by adding an optional `anchorService` property to the message. This property will be set if an anchor has been requested but not yet returned. When an anchor do get returned a new update message will be sent with the CID of the *anchorRecord* as the `tip`, and `anchorSerivce` not set.

Reviewer 2: "when an anchor do get returned": /s/do/does
/s/anchorSerivce/anchorService
